The heterogeneity and often multidomain character of
systems in which the Electrical Engineering operates
complicate their overall analysis. Yet the approach
system is essential because it highlights the
couplings between elements located in different
disciplines. to facilitate this process, the formalism
unifying modeling "Bond Graph" is used to
visualize energy transfers. Otherwise,
this methodology offers interesting perspectives
in terms of systemic analysis, the subject of this thesis. Of them
model simplification methods have been studied and
compared. This is the Disturbance Methods
Singular, based on the dynamic separation of
elements, and the MORA (Model Order Reduction
Algorithm), based on energy activity. These methods
can lead us to simplify the Bond model
Graph as a function of the frequency range of the signals
inputs / outputs. To analyze the stability, the method
location of the poles and Lyapunov's second method have
been studied and applied using the Bond formalism
Graph. These different analysis techniques are
applied using the Bond Graph formalism. These
different analysis techniques are applied to the case
study of an industrial railway traction chain. ABSTRACT: In Electrical Engineering, the global analysis of systems is difficult because of their heterogeneity and their multidomain nature. Nevertheless, this system approach is essential because it underlines couplings between elements of different physical fields. To facilitate this analysis, the unified formalism Bond Graph is used. This modeling method illustrates the energetic transfers in the system. Moreover, this methodology offers interesting solutions in terms of system analysis. Two simplification methods have been investigated and compared, i.e. the Singular Perturbations Method (SPM), based on the dynamic analysis of elements, and the Model Order Reduction Algorithm (MORA), based on the energetic activity. By these methods, a simplified bond graph model can be obtained for a given frequency range. The stability analysis by the root locus method and the Lyapunov’s second method have been examined and applied with the Bond Graph formalism support. An industrial railway traction system is
considered as the case study in the application of these
different technical analysis.