Electrical engineering is a field which brings together the three electronic specialties,
electrical engineering as well as automatic control, the essential factor that links these three techniques
is energy.
In ancient Greece, energeia meant "in work", "in action". The
French has retained this meaning. Energy is a force in action every day!
A kick in a soccer ball produces movement of the ball towards the
partner or opponent's goals. The force of the pass or the shoot gave its
energy to the balloon. The flame of the gas stove provides the necessary energy for the
cooking pasta. The energy produced by the reactors of an airplane allows it to fly and
well don't crash to the ground. The energy of a waterfall makes it possible to manufacture
electricity. Light energy from the sun fuels plant growth.
Ten can therefore deduce a first simple definition: Energy characterizes the
ability to produce actions, for example to generate movement, modify the
body temperature or to transform matter. Energy comes from different
sources found in nature: wood, coal, oil, gas, wind,
solar radiation, waterfalls, the internal heat of the earth, uranium. Can by hand
take different forms: heat, muscle energy, mechanical energy, chemical energy,
electrical energy for example. Its multiple forms can be transformed into
the other.
Electronics is the set of techniques that use electrical signals
to capture, transmit and use information. An exception is the electronics of
power used for the electric-electric conversion of energy on the other hand
electrical engineering is the technical use of electricity, either as a support
energy, or as an information medium. While the automatic is everything
system that always performs the same work cycle for which it was programmed.
The peculiarity of Electrical Engineering compared to Electronics, Automation and
Informatics comes from the fact that the first is essentially concerned with the processing and
conversion of electrical energy rather than signal processing (or
information).Figure 1 illustrates this complementarity.
To better understand the link between these three major techniques, let's take
the example of home automation. The term home automation is made up of the grouping of two
words. Domo which means house, and automatic.
Home automation therefore brings together all the techniques and technologies allowing
automation and improvement of tasks within a house or apartment.
To do this, the devices in the house are integrated into
communications that make it possible to manage the automatisms. Home automation covers
automatic doors, security and remote monitoring systems, heating,
management of energy, household appliances, audiovisual equipment and more.