What is physiology?
Physiology is the science of life. It is the branch of biology that aims to understand the mechanisms of living things, from the basis of cell function at the ionic and molecular level to the integrated behaviour of the whole body and the influence of the external environment. Research in physiology helps us to understand how the body works in health and how it responds and adapts to the challenges of everyday life; it also helps us to determine what goes wrong in disease, facilitating the development of new treatments and guidelines for maintaining human and animal health. The emphasis on integrating molecular, cellular, systems and whole body function is what distinguishes physiology from the other life sciences.

What do physiologists do?
All over the world, physiologists are working in universities, in research institutions, in biotechnology companies and in the pharmaceutical industry to advance our understanding of how the body functions. Physiology is an exciting and dynamic discipline that underpins translational and clinical medicine. It also provides the interface between the physical sciences and the life sciences.

Physiologists study every aspect of the way human and other animal bodies work.  Some physiologists investigate the behaviour of individual proteins in single cells. Others are researching the interaction of cells in tissues, organs and systems or study the integration of these systems to control the whole complex organism. This work provides the foundation for many biological and clinical sciences, including medicine and veterinary science.

Not all physiologists are found in research laboratories , though. Physiologists also work with patients in hospital clinics, helping with the diagnosis and management of disease. They work alongside elite athletes, helping to improve their performance and avoid injury, or they investigate how the body adapts to extreme environmental challenges, such as deep sea diving or prolonged space flight.  Physiology is recognised globally.  Physiologists can travel the world to conferences and meetings to present their findings to other scientists.  Some physiologists report scientific developments for newspapers, journals and other media, or play an advisory role to Government or charitable organisations. Physiologists also use their skills in the legal arena, engaging in complex issues of patent law, or in education, inspiring and nurturing the next generation. Studying physiology opens doors to employment in all these areas and more.  For more information about the range of careers and skills you can develop through a physiology degree, click here.


