SUMMARY - Very high voltage electrical systems have
need to be strengthened to facilitate exchanges, maintain the
operational safety, and connect offshore sources.
Certain limits of alternative networks then appear. The
Multi-terminal high voltage direct current (HVDC) networks may be an alternative subject to finding
solutions to scientific and technological barriers
existing. The challenges encountered are at the heart of electrical engineering,
both in terms of material, component and system. This
article presents the main challenges to be met in the
field of electrical engineering to make operation possible
reliable and safe HVDC networks.
Keywords— Electrical system, multi-terminal HVDC networks, HVDC converters, high voltage semiconductors.
1. THE CONSTRUCTION OF ELECTRICAL NETWORKS
The first electrical networks developed at the end
of the 19th century, in a context of competition between
continuous technologies (Edison in the USA, Desprez in Europe)
and alternative (Westinghouse-Tesla in the USA, Siemens in
Europe). The increase in demand quickly showed
the limits of continuous flow in terms of energy efficiency and
cutting technologies. Thanks to the invention of
transformer, the AC solution will allows to
transport large power flows at high voltage
to reduce losses, then gradually lower the
tension by approaching points of consumption. During
a century, electrical systems have therefore developed
according to this technology with the deployment of large means of
centralized production connected to transmission networks
interconnected meshes to which networks of
distribution with radial structure to supply the points of
consumption. In the second part of the 20th century, the
development of electronic power components a
allowed to initiate direct current link projects for
the transmission of power beyond the seas (Italy-Corsica-Sardinia, France-England or those in the Baltic Sea),
or over very long land distances. Today the
electricity consumption in developed countries remains
growth, and developing countries have strong needs
infrastructure (production and electricity networks). To that
In addition, there are environmental objectives that encourage
use of renewable sources such as hydraulics,
solar or wind. Large deposits (offshore or potential
hydraulic) can be moved away from consumption areas
which requires transport infrastructure. Moreover the
countries tend to strengthen interconnections to increase the
reliability of the electrical system and to facilitate exchanges
energy in a liberalized environment.