ntroduction
Since late 2019, Corona virus disease 2019 (COVID-19) has spread throughout the globe, with infection numbers in the tens of millions, and deaths at hundreds of thousands and counting. To delay and reduce these numbers, unprecedented widespread shutdowns and policies were issued, which eliminated the majority of face-to-face interaction. As a result, businesses and organizations were forced to work remotely, including non-COVID-19-related scientific research. In March of 2020, we had to quickly count our losses and figure out how to work as scientists without a laboratory for days uncounted. Although these restrictions begin to ease and scientists return to the laboratory, we reflect on what we learned and what we can take with us moving forward (FIGURE 1).

n the current age, capabilities for scientists to work remotely have never been better. Collaborative communication platforms allow for workers to maintain a sense of normalcy in collaboration with colleagues. Likewise, cloud sharing and analysis software provide us with many of the same electronic capabilities that used to only be available in the laboratory, including data and idea sharing, access to journals and literature for scientific writing, and other data analysis tools to continue with their projects.

Although scientists have always been agile and innovative, we ask a number of overlying questions: What can scientists do when working away from the laboratory? What impact will this shift to remote work have on science as a whole? How will remote work affect the subsistence of us scientists? It has become clear that COVID-19 has impacted the scientific community and will likely alter how scientific research is conducted in the future, with some features likely changed permanently. Here, we offer some perspectives from each member of the laboratory toward the goal of beginning to answer these questions.

Senior Faculty
Science is interactive by nature, and most of my innovative project planning results from in-person interaction with colleagues, students, and laboratory staff. However, many new platforms have been developed for simulated face-to-face meetings, which have become the norm during the COVID-19 pandemic. This has allowed our collaborations, work groups, conferences, and study sections to continue, now with a new face. Although most of us senior faculty are not routinely in the laboratory conducting experiments, we must rather spend time writing grant proposals, manuscripts, and other activities that function to keep the laboratory productive. We are able to do this as well as other activities, including mentoring of graduate students and postdoctoral fellows online, with little to no effect on productivity. Teaching is also easily conducted online; however, keeping class activities moving forward can be difficult without face-to-face interaction.

I have found that senior faculty are faced with another interesting role that many are not trained to conduct, which involves counseling of junior faculty during a period that none of us have ever experienced. Most senior faculty have built up enough additional data and experimental results that manuscripts can be worked on during the pandemic; however, newer faculty do not have the luxury of having additional “banked” work that can be prepared for dissemination. It is important that senior faculty be the leaders among their scientific departments to shepherd junior faculty through these trying and uncertain times.

Junior Faculty
The many-year journey to tenure is a relentless balancing act. What was once dominated by bench work, now, bearing the faculty badge, we must simultaneously participate in meetings of all sorts, run the laboratory, manage personnel, and teach in the classroom and laboratory, all while squeezing in time for what matters most: writing grants and manuscripts. Although this lively lifestyle was not unexpected (3), many times the seemingly urgent tasks take up an entire week’s worth of time, while the grants and manuscripts lay unfinished. The successful junior faculty are the ones who prioritize these markers of progress over other things that may steal away focus. Thus, when universities began to close and research was put on hold, my list of daily responsibilities was drastically flipped; that is, now there was time for those grants and papers, since the many other tasks that could not be done from home had been pushed aside. We were forced to count our losses and make the best of the situation.

Balance during quarantine was a new game: conferences and talks cancelled, committees put on hold, laboratory business halted. Many who wished to spend more time with family were now forced to do so, with the closure of schools and daycares. Half-written grants and manuscripts could now be completed, allowing for plenty of time for reviewing and re-reviewing. Post-quarantine, although not back to normal, I reflect on bringing daily rhythms toward the fundamentals of good science by spending time to read the latest literature, carefully plan experiments, and leave time for grant proposals and manuscript submissions. Junior faculty should take hold of this lesson learned in prioritization by bringing in our own sort of quarantine: taking time each day to turn off the “busy work” and focus on what matters.

Laboratory Technician