Chemical production managers are responsible for the technical coordination and control of the chemical production processes. They steer one or more manufacturing units and oversee the implementation of technical and human means, within the framework of objectives of volume, quality and planning. Chemical production managers design and ensure that the production plans and schedules are met. They are responsible for implementation of the processes designed to ensure quality of the manufactured product, good working conditions and environmental practices, and safety of the workplace.

Would you like to know what kind of career and professions suit you best? Take our free Holland code career test and find out.

Personality Type
Enterprising / Conventional
Knowledge
Chemical processes
The relevant chemical processes used in manufacture, such as purification, seperation, emulgation and dispergation processing.

Good manufacturing practices
Regulatory requirements and Good Manufacturing Practices (GMP) applied in the relevant manufacturing sector.

Leadership principles
Set of traits and values which guide the actions of a leader with her/his employees and the company and provide direction throughout her/his career. These principles are also an important tool for self-evaluation to identify strengths and weaknesses, and seek self-improvement.

Manufacturing plant equipment
The characteristics and functioning conditions of manufacturing plant equipments such as chemical reactors, addition tanks, pumps, filters, mixers.

Risk management
The process of identifying, assessing, and prioritising of all types of risks and where they could come from, such as natural causes, legal changes, or uncertainty in any given context, and the methods on dealing with risks effectively.

Supply chain principles
Characteristics, operations and resources involved in moving a product or service from supplier to the customer.

Skills
Communicate production plan
Communicates production plan to all levels in a way that targets, processes, and requirements are clear. Ensures that information is passed to everyone involved in the process assuming their responsibility for overall success.

Assess environmental impact
Monitor environmental impacts and carry out assessments in order to identify and to reduce the organisation's environmental risks while taking costs into account.

Manage staff
Manage employees and subordinates, working in a team or individually, to maximise their performance and contribution. Schedule their work and activities, give instructions, motivate and direct the workers to meet the company objectives. Monitor and measure how an employee undertakes their responsibilities and how well these activities are executed. Identify areas for improvement and make suggestions to achieve this. Lead a group of people to help them achieve goals and maintain an effective working relationship among staff.

Regulate chemical reaction
Regulate the reaction by adjusting the steam and coolant valves so that the reaction is within the specified limits for explosion prevention.

Perform product planning
Identify and articulate market requirements that define a product’s feature set. Product planning serves as the basis for decisions about price, distribution and promotion.

Liaise with managers
Liaise with managers of other departments ensuring effective service and communication, i.e. sales, planning, purchasing, trading, distribution and technical.

Adhere to standard procedures
Adhere to and follow the Standard Operating Procedures (SOP).

Manage chemical processes inspection
Manage the chemical in-process inspection, making sure the inspection results are documented, the inspection procedures are well written and the checklists are updated.

Meet deadlines
Ensure operative processes are finished at a previously agreed-upon time.

Monitor manufacturing quality standards
Monitor quality standards in manufacturing and finishing process.

Adhere to organisational guidelines
Adhere to organisational or department specific standards and guidelines. Understand the motives of the organisation and the common agreements and act accordingly.

Improve chemical processes
Collect data required to make improvements or modifications to chemical processes. Develop new industrial processes, design new process plants/equipment or modify existing ones.

Adapt production levels
Adapt current production levels and strive to improve the current production rates looking for economic gains and margins. Negotiate improvement with sales, dispatch and distribution departments.

Manage supplies
Monitor and control the flow of supplies that includes the purchase, storage and movement of the required quality of raw materials, and also work-in-progress inventory. Manage supply chain activities and synchronise supply with demand of production and customer.

Monitor chemical process condition
Monitor the conformity of the chemical process, checking all indicators or warning signals provided by the instruments such as recording instruments, flowmeters and panel lights.

Monitor plant production
Monitor the plant processes set-up and efficiency to ensure the maximum output production levels.

Analyse supply chain strategies
Examine an organisation's planning details of production, their expected output units, quality, quantity, cost, time available and labour requirements. Provide suggestions in order to improve products, service quality and reduce costs.

Strive for company growth
Develop strategies and plans aiming at achieving a sustained company growth, be the company self-owned or somebody else's. Strive with actions to increase revenues and positive cash flows.

Assess quality of services
Test and compare various goods and services in order to assess their quality and to give detailed information to consumers.

Manage budgets
Conduct cost estimates and budget planning. Monitor the budget, as well as costs and expenses. Forecast the budget development continuously. Report on the budget.

Follow company standards
Lead and manage according to the organisation's code of conduct.

Adjust production schedule
Adjust work schedule in order to maintain permanent shift operation.

Develop manufacturing policies
Develop policies and procedures applied in a manufactury such as employment policies or safety procedures.

Ensure compliance with environmental legislation
Monitor activities and perform tasks ensuring compliance with standards involving environmental protection and sustainability, and amend activities in the case of changes in environmental legislation. Ensure that the processes are compliant with environment regulations and best practices.

Keep up with digital transformation of industrial processes
Keep up to date with digital innovations applicable to industrial processes. Integrate these transformations in the company's processes aiming for competitive and profitable business models.

Create manufacturing guidelines
Draft procedures and guidelines to ensure that government and industry regulations are met by manufacturers in both international and domestic markets.

Plan health and safety procedures
Set up procedures for maintaining and improving health and safety in the workplace.

Ensure compliance with safety legislation
Implement safety programmes to comply with national laws and legislation. Ensure that equipment and processes are compliant with safety regulations.