Solar has been and continues to be an anchor renewable energy distributed energy resource (DER) for microgrids. But the shortcomings of photovoltaic (PV) solar as a DER that actually contributes to resiliency are annoyingly self-evident: Suffice it to say that when the sun doesn’t shine, or the grid goes down, PV solar alone isn’t contributing much of anything useful toward resiliency. And there is, of course, the amount of real estate required to generate meaningful volumes of electricity. All of that aside, PV solar is currently, without argument, the greenest widely available and affordable DER.

But back to resiliency. Maybe battery storage gets added into the PV solar microgrid. Battery storage coupled to PV solar provides the technical means to seamlessly transition to an island microgrid if and when the grid goes down, and it can give some added heft to smooth out some of the other disagreeable technical characteristics of PV solar — such as susceptibility to being yanked around by the host electrical loads. But for how long can the battery discharge and at what cost? An old mentor of mine used to say, “I can solve any problem you have if it takes all the money you got.” That was always good for a nervous chuckle, but shortly thereafter, we would have to get on with solving the problem at hand.

Extended discharge time for batteries is expensive, and there is, of course, the tricky calculus of sizing the available PV solar to charge the battery while simultaneously carrying the load of the microgrid. One can also add in load shedding and load management, and the design and operations get a bit more complicated. But the real complication is not the technology. It is all there, ready and proven. The primary complications are the economics – but that is a topic for another day.

Let’s put aside the PV solar concepts discussed above and perhaps agree that, for now, the most practical DERs for resiliency are arguably combustion or chemical platforms such as IC engines, combustion turbines or fuel cells — which, with the exception of a microgrid closely coupled to a renewable fuel source, leaves these DERs fueled with a fossil fuel. This contributes to resiliency, but not so much to the “greening” of the microgrid.